The day is gone, and all its sweets are gone!
Sweet voice, sweet lips, soft hand, and softer breast,
Warm breath, light whisper, tender semi-tone,
Bright eyes, accomplish’d shape, and lang’rous waist!
Faded the flower and all its budded charms,
Faded the sight of beauty from my eyes,
Faded the shape of beauty from my arms,
Faded the voice, warmth, whiteness, paradise –
Vanish’d unseasonably at shut of eve,
When the dusk holiday – or holinight
Of fragrant-curtain’d love begins to weave
The woof of darkness thick, for hid delight,
But, as I’ve read love’s missal through to-day,
He’ll let me sleep, seeing I fast and pray.
For the first time, I listen to a lost
and secret recording of us
making love near-on ten years ago.
I recognize your voice, your sounds,
though if I knew no better,
I could be any man in any room.
After, the rising sounds of rising
and of dressing and once
as you step up close to the deck,
perhaps to pick up shoes, you sing
the chorus of Sunday Morning.
I call on you to hurry and we leave.
It does not end then; the tape rolls on.
A few late cars which sigh by
might have passed us walking away
triumphant, unaware we’ve left behind
this mop and mow mechanism
of silence to which we may never return.
Through your lens the sequoia swallowed me   
like a dryad. The camera flashed & forgot.
I, on the other hand, must practice my absent-
mindedness, memory being awkward as a touch   
that goes unloved. Lately your eyes have shut
down to a shade more durable than skin’s. I know you   
love distance, how it smooths. You choose an aerial view,   
the city angled to abstraction, while I go for the close   
exposures: poorly-mounted countenances along Broadway,   
the pigweed cracking each hardscrabble backlot.   
It’s a matter of perspective: yours is to love me   
from a block away & mine is to praise the grain-
iness that weaves expressively: your face.
He danced with tall grass
for a moment, like he was swaying
with a woman. Our gun barrels
glowed white-hot.
When I got to him,
a blue halo
of flies had already claimed him.
I pulled the crumbled photograph
from his fingers.
There's no other way
to say this: I fell in love.
The morning cleared again,
except for a distant mortar
& somewhere choppers taking off.
I slid the wallet into his pocket
& turned him over, so he wouldn't be
kissing the ground.
There is a hornet in the room   
and one of us will have to go   
out the window into the late   
August midafternoon sun. I
won. There is a certain challenge   
in being humane to hornets   
but not much. A launch draws   
two lines of wake behind it   
on the bay like a delta
with a melted base. Sandy   
billows, or so they look,
of feathery ripe heads of grass,   
an acid-yellow kind of
goldenrod glowing or glowering   
in shade. Rocks with rags   
of shadow, washed dust clouts   
that will never bleach.
It is not like this at all.   
The rapid running of the   
lapping water a hollow knock
of someone shipping oars:   
it’s eleven years since   
Frank sat at this desk and   
saw and heard it all   
the incessant water the   
immutable crickets only   
not the same: new needles   
on the spruce, new seaweed   
on the low-tide rocks   
other grass and other water   
even the great gold lichen   
on a granite boulder   
even the boulder quite   
literally is not the same
Up there on the mountain road, the fireworks
blistered and subsided, for once at eye level:
spatter of light like water flicked from the fingers;
the brief emergent pattern; and after the afterimage bled   
from the night sky, a delayed and muffled thud   
that must have seemed enormous down below,
the sound concomitant with the arranged
threat of fire above the bleachers.
I stood as tall and straight as possible,
trying to compensate, trying not to lean in my friend’s   
direction. Beside me, correcting height, he slouched   
his shoulders, knees locked, one leg stuck out
to form a defensive angle with the other.
Thus we were most approximate
and most removed.
                         In the long pauses
between explosions, he’d signal conversation   
by nodding vaguely toward the ragged pines.   
I said my children would have loved the show.
He said we were watching youth at a great distance,   
and I thought how the young
are truly boring, unvaried as they are
by the deep scar of doubt, the constant afterimage
of regret—no major tension in their bodies, no tender   
hesitation, they don’t yet know
that this is so much work, scraping
from the self its multiple desires; don’t yet know   
fatigue with self, the hunger for obliteration
that wakes us in the night at the dead hour
and fuels good sex.

                            Of course I didn’t say it.
I realized he watched the fireworks
with the cool attention he had turned on women   
dancing in the bar, a blunt uninvested gaze   
calibrating every moving part, thighs,   
breasts, the muscles of abandon.
I had wanted that gaze on me.
And as the evening dwindled to its nub,
its puddle of tallow, appetite without object,   
as the men peeled off to seek
the least encumbered consolation
and the women grew expansive with regard—
how have I managed so long to stand among the paired   
bodies, the raw pulsing music driving   
loneliness into the air like scent,
and not be seized by longing,
not give anything to be summoned
into the larger soul two souls can make?   
Watching the fireworks with my friend,   
so little ease between us,
I see that I have armed myself;
fire changes everything it touches.
Perhaps he has foreseen this impediment.   
Perhaps when he holds himself within himself,   
a sheathed angular figure at my shoulder,   
he means to be protective less of him
than me, keeping his complicating rage   
inside his body. And what would it solve   
if he took one hand from his pocket,
risking touch, risking invitation—
if he took my hand it would not alter   
this explicit sadness.
                                 The evening stalls,
the fireworks grow boring at this remove.
The traffic prowling the highway at our backs,   
the couples, the families scuffling on the bank   
must think us strangers to each other. Or,
more likely, with the celebrated fireworks thrusting   
their brilliant repeating designs above the ridge,   
we simply blur into the foreground,   
like the fireflies dragging among the trees   
their separate, discontinuous lanterns.
I thank you, kind and best beloved friend,
With the same thanks one murmurs to a sister,
When, for some gentle favor, he hath kissed her,
Less for the gifts than for the love you send,
Less for the flowers, than what the flowers convey;
If I, indeed, divine their meaning truly,
And not unto myself ascribe, unduly,
Things which you neither meant nor wished to say,
Oh! tell me, is the hope then all misplaced?
And am I flattered by my own affection?
But in your beauteous gift, methought I traced
Something above a short-lived predilection,
And which, for that I know no dearer name,
I designate as love, without love’s flame.
